---
title: Introduction
author: Lyz
---

This is my personal [digital garden](digital_garden.md) where I share everything
I learn about a huge variety of topics, from [antifascism](antifascism.md)
and other forms of [activism](diversity.md), to [life
management](life_automation.md), [health](sleep.md), [Python](python.md),
[DevOps](devops.md), [software architecture](adr.md), [writing](writing.md),
[dancing](rave_dances.md), or [data analysis](recommender_systems.md).

Unlike in common blogging where you write an article and forget about it, posts
are treated as plants in various stages of growth and nurturing. Some might
wither and die, and others will flourish and provide a source of continued
knowledge for the gardener and folks in the community that visit.

To follow the updates of this site, subscribe to any of the [RSS
feeds](https://lyz-code.github.io/blue-book/newsletter/0_newsletter_index/).

# Visiting the garden

If this is your first visit, welcome!, you may be overwhelmed by the amount of
content and don't know where to start reading. Start with the first article that
grabs your attention of the navigation tree on the left and be ready to follow
the internal links to read the rest.

Or you can use it as a reference, by using the top search field or by cloning
the [git repository](https://github.com/lyz-code/blue-book) and using grep like
tools.

# Make your own digital garden

Don't be afraid to [create one of your own](build_your_own_wiki.md) and share
what you know with the world. Or [contribute](#contributing) to existing ones,
I would love to see the blue-book maintained by other people too.

If you don't want to start from scratch, you can [fork the blue
book](forking_this_wiki.md) and start writing straight away.

You can view [other similar gardens](digital_garden.md#existing-digital-gardens)
to get inspiration.

# History

I've tried writing blogs in the past, but it doesn't work for me. I can't stand
the idea of having to save some time to sit and write a full article of
something I've done. I need to document *at the same time* as I develop or
learn. As I usually use incremental reading or work on several projects, I don't
write one article, but improve several at the same time in a unordered way.
That's why I embrace [Gwern's Long Content
principle](https://www.gwern.net/About#long-content).

The only drawback of this format is that there is no friendly way for a reader
to keep updated with the changes, that's why I created
[mkdocs-newsletter](https://lyz-code.github.io/mkdocs-newsletter/).

In 2016 I started writing in text files summaries of different concepts, how to
install or how to use tools. In the beginning it was plaintext, then came
[Markdown](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markdown), then
[Asciidoc](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AsciiDoc), I did several refactors to
reorder the different articles based in different structured ways, but I always
did it with myself as the only target audience.

Three years, 7422 articles and almost 50 million lines later, I found [Gwern's
website](https://www.gwern.net/) and [Nikita's
wiki](https://wiki.nikitavoloboev.xyz), which made me think that it was time to
do another refactor to give my wiki a semantical structure, go beyond a simple
reference making it readable and open it to the internet.

And the blue book was born.

# Contributing

If you find a mistake or want to add new content, please make the changes. You
can use the edit button on the top right of any article to add them in a pull
request, if you don't know what that means, you can always open an
[issue](https://github.com/lyz-code/blue-book/issues/new) or send me an
[email](contact.md).

# Thank you

If you liked my book and want to show your support, please see if you know how
can I fulfill any item of my [wish list](projects.md#seeds) or contribute to [my
other projects](projects.md).

[![CC0](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-CC0-0a0a0a.svg?style=flat&colorA=0a0a0a)](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/)
